certspotter: init at 0.17.0; nixos/certspotter: init (#262915)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/modules/services/monitoring/certspotter.md

# Cert Spotter {#module-services-certspotter}

Cert Spotter is a tool for monitoring [Certificate Transparency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_Transparency)
logs.

## Service Configuration {#modules-services-certspotter-service-configuration}

A basic config that notifies you of all certificate changes for your

> dowmain would look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
domain would look as follows:
```

  watchlist = [ ".example.org" ];
  emailRecipients = [ "webmaster@example.org" ];
};

# Configure an SMTP client
programs.msmtp.enable = true;
# Or you can use any other module that provides sendmail, like
# services.nullmailer, services.opensmtpd, services.postfix
```

In this case, the leading dot in `".example.org"` means that Cert
Spotter should monitor not only `example.org`, but also all of its
subdomains.

## Operation {#modules-services-certspotter-operation}

**By default, NixOS configures Cert Spotter to skip all certificates
issued before its first launch**, because checking the entire
Certificate Transparency logs requires downloading tens of terabytes of
data. If you want to check the *entire* logs for previously issued
certificates, you have to set `services.certspotter.startAtEnd` to
`false` and remove all previously saved log state in
`/var/lib/certspotter/logs`. The downloaded logs aren't saved, so if you
add a new domain to the watchlist and want Cert Spotter to go through
the logs again, you will have to remove `/var/lib/certspotter/logs`
again.

After catching up with the logs, Cert Spotter will start monitoring live

> logs. As of the moment of writing this, it uses around **20 Mbps** of

Reviewer 2: Nit: s/As of the moment of writing this/As of October 2023/

traffic on average.

## Hooks {#modules-services-certspotter-hooks}

> Certspotter supports running custom hooks instead of (or in addition to)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cert Spotter supports running custom hooks instead of (or in addition to)
```
